                           *** ALBION ***

This document accompanies a preview version of Albion, the role-playing game
currently being developed by Blue Byte for PC CD-ROM. This document explains
how to install and use this early version. More about the game can be found
in the product info.

Please keep in mind at all times that this is only a very early version of
Albion. Many features are already present, but others are incomplete or are
missing altogether. This version is only intended to give you an idea of what
the final version of Albion will look like. However, unfortunately you will
not be able to experience what playing the final game will be like. In other
words it will not be possible to play any scenario or sub-plot in any
coherent manner. It is like visiting a film-set: the sets have been built but
nothing much is happening. There are some actors standing around but they
aren't doing much. And of course they all speak German.


--- HOW TO INSTALL ALBION ---

Albion will run fine directly from CD. However, if you want to install the
game on your hard drive, copy all the files from the CD by typing:

XCOPY (source) (target) /e /y

For example, when your CD-ROM drive is E: and you want to install the game
in C:\ALBION, you would type:

XCOPY E:\ALBION C:\ALBION /e /y

Then change to your hard drive directory (in this case C:\ALBION) and type
the following:

ATTRIB -r /s


--- HOW TO START ALBION ---

Just type ALBION. When you leave Albion, the program may show some warnings
because the game is still under development. You can safely ignore these.

!IMPORTANT! Albion will run on a 4 Mb machine. However, the current version
requires more than 4 megabytes of RAM.


--- IMPORTANT FEATURES OF ALBION ---

- A lot of attention has been put into making sure there is a good, mature
story with interesting and complex characters, and a fascinating and
realistic game world.

- There are many different cultures in Albion, each with their own distinct
look and "feel".

- The game has been designed to offer months of playing fun not because the
puzzles are so hard, but because there is just so much to do.

- The user interface is intuitive and easy to learn.

- The graphics are hand-drawn rather than rendered or scanned, creating a
more intense atmosphere.

- The game features three different display systems : 2D for better
orientation and exploration, 3D for more intense immersion (the "you are
actually there" feeling), and a separate 3D system for the tactical combat
screen.


--- THE AIM OF THE GAME ---

The aim of the game in Albion is to save the world. To do this, the player
must travel and explore, talk to people, solve quests, fight, and improve the
capabilities and equipment of the people in his or her party.


--- WHO WILL WANT TO PLAY ALBION? ---

- Role-playing game afficionados.

There haven't been a lot of good role-playing games lately, and this
situation is unlikely to change in the future. Therefore we can count on the
attention of people who have enjoyed computer role-playing games in the past,
even if they have concentrated on a specific series of games until now.

- People who enjoyed the previous games developed by this team such as
Dragonflight, Amberstar and Ambermoon.

The game has enough similarities with its "predecessors", so that old fans
will accept the game instantly. We have already received proof of this at
various shows.

- The rest of the world.

Because of the state-of-the-art graphics, the easy user interface, and the
fact that we didn't design this game with hard-core gamers in mind, this
game should also be accessible to people who haven't played role-playing
games before.


--- WHAT IS IN ALBION ---

- Maps.

This is the most important part of the game. There are four types of maps :

1. 2D surface maps. This is where the player gets to explore the planet's
 surface. The scale of these maps is larger than in the indoor maps, making
 everything seem smaller. There are three different climates, each with its
 own set of graphics : jungle, normal, and desert. From the surface maps, the
 player enters either dungeons or...

2. ...3D city maps. Cities are displayed using the 3D texture-mapping system.
 The player can explore the city and talk to its inhabitants. By entering
 houses, the player enters...

3. ...2D indoor maps. Here the player explores houses and buildings and talks
 to their occupants. These maps and the 3D city maps are where the
 differences between cultures are most obvious.

4. 3D dungeon maps. Many quests involve dark and gloomy dungeons, presented
 in glorious 3D-texturemappovision. Here the player uncovers ancient secrets
 and battles terrible foes.

- The automapper.

This screen allows the player to orientate him- or herself within 3D maps.
In cities, the player can travel to places already visited using only one
mouse-click. Normally the automapper only shows those parts which have
already been visited by the player, but in cheat-mode the entire map can be
seen.

- The tactical combat screen.

This is where conflicts between the party and groups of monsters are settled.
Combat in Albion is a tactical rather than a real-time affair. The player
enters actions such as move, attack, or cast a spell for each of the party
members, and then starts the next combat round, which is then carried out.
Each combat spell will have it's own special effect. Two
demonstration effects are available in the current version (see special key
table below).

- The inventory screen.

This is where the player can determine what each party member will wear and
what items they will carry in their backpack. The player can also examine the
statistics of all the different party members, although this is not in the
current version yet.

- The dialogue screen.

Though not 100% complete, you can get an impression of what dialogues will
be like by talking to some of the party members. Dialogues are an essential
part of Albion, as they help to advance the story and deepen the feeling that
the player is in a living, breathing world.


--- WHAT IS NOT IN ALBION, BUT WILL BE ---

- Lots and lots of exciting scenarios.
- More graphics!
- Lots of different monsters and other opponents in combat.
- Lots of combat spells, each with different effects.
- Various different combat backgrounds.
- Three different status panels in the inventory screen, allowing you to
 access as detailed statistics as you desire.
- Lots of music (both MIDI and digital) and sound effects.
- Improved 2D & 3D controls. All steering is provisional at the moment.
- Beautiful still pictures and animations to illustrate crucial moments in
 the storyline.
- SGI-rendered, original intro.


--- HOW TO USE ALBION ---

(LMB means left mouse-button and RMB means right mouse-button.)

The basic user-interface concept is this :
- Anything that can be clicked on will be highlighted, and an explanation
 will appear at the bottom-right of the screen.
- Use the LMB to steer your party and to take action.
- If the mouse-pointer turns gold, click the RMB to access a pop-up menu.

In 2D maps, the mouse pointer changes shape depending on its position
in relation to the party. Press and hold the LMB to make the party move in
the appropriate direction. To perform actions, press and hold (!) the RMB.
Move the mouse to select the square on which you want to perform the action.
Release the RMB. A pop-up menu appears with all the relevant actions. Some of
the options haven't been implemented yet. Use "Examine" to look at stuff and
read signs. Use "Manipulate" to open doors and flip switches, and "Use item"
to solve certain puzzles.

In 3D maps, the mouse pointer changes shape depending on its position
in relation to the middle of the screen. The 3D map window is divided into
nine areas.

Clicking (and holding) with the LBM performs the following functions:


Move forward and    |ÿÿÿMove forward	  |ÿÿÿÿÿMove forward and
rotate left	    |ÿÿÿ		  |ÿÿÿÿÿrotate right
--------------------+---------------------+--------------------------
Move left	    |ÿÿÿ      - 	  |ÿÿÿÿÿMove right
--------------------+---------------------+--------------------------
Move backward and   |ÿÿÿMove backward	  |ÿÿÿÿÿMove backward
turn left	    |ÿÿÿ		  |ÿÿÿÿÿand turn right

The further you move away from the center, the faster you'll go. Sounds hard,
is easy. Try it.


Double-clicking with the LBM performs the following functions:

Turn 90 degrees	    |ÿÿÿ      - 	  |ÿÿÿÿÿTurn 90 degrees
to the left	    |ÿÿÿ		  |ÿÿÿÿÿto the right
--------------------+---------------------+--------------------------
      - 	    |ÿÿÿ      - 	  |ÿÿÿÿÿ      -
--------------------+---------------------+--------------------------
Turn 180 degrees    |ÿÿÿ      - 	  |ÿÿÿÿÿTurn 180 degrees
to the left	    |ÿÿÿ		  |ÿÿÿÿÿto the right


You can access a pop-up menu by pressing the RMB in the middle of the screen.
However, because this is only an early version, you may have trouble
performing any actions in 3D. This will of course be changed in the final
version of the game. The automapper works fine.

In the inventory screen, move items from backpack to body and vice versa by
dragging and dropping (note that you need not keep the LMB down while you're
dragging).

In the combat screen, which you enter by pressing F8 or F9, you can access a
pop-up menu by pressing the RMB on a party member (in the tactical window).
The monsters do not attack or move yet. Some of the functions, such as
attacking, moving, and using magic already work. Enter moves for each party
member, then select "Start round" to see it all happen.

One of the party members, Khunag, can cast powerful magic in combat. Select
the spell "Long-range single 1" (the name will be changed of course), to see
what the spells will look like.

In the automapper you can exit by clicking with the RMB. Normally you will
only see those parts of the automap that you have already visited. If you
activate cheat mode before entering the automapper, you will see everything.

In the status area at the bottom of the screen, you can access a pop-up menu
by pressing the RMB on a party member's portrait. You can talk to party
members. You can also make someone the leader by pressing the LMB on their
portrait, or access someone's inventory by double-clicking.

The game begins in a specially created short-cut map. From this map you can
access some of the maps currently in the game by running through the doors.
To find out where a door leads to, examine the sign next to the door. To
return to the short-cut map, press F7.


--- SPECIAL KEYS IN ALBION ---

F3	Leave the program.
F7	Return to the special short-cut map.
F8	Go to the combat screen (background 1).
F9	Go to the combat screen (background 2).
F12	Activate the cheat mode. You can walk through walls and see the
	entire automap.


--- FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT ALBION ---

- How many characters can you have in the party?

Up to 6 characters.

- Can the player determine the main character's face, name, sex or
statistics?

No. We have a good reason for it too.

- Can the player switch between 2D and 3D as desired?

No. Some maps are 2D, others are 3D. This is determined by the people who
create the maps.

