Just to spare you the trouble of having to copy all the text from the
screen (don't you just hate 6 by 6 pixel fonts ?), here is, at great
personal expense, the text from

			A M B E R M O O N
			 - the preview -

We assume you have seen Amberstar and the text will stress the improvements
made in Ambermoon.

A major feature of Ambermoon is the new dungeon system : no longer do you
have to move through a blocky map, now you can move freely through creepy
dungeons and fascinating cities.

This is achieved by a real-time texture-mapping dungeon system which allows
the player to move and turn smoothly through the 3-dimensional maps.

We have had this dungeon system for at least one and a half years now (!),
and we have thanked God on our bare knees that we finally had a program
in which to put it.

The problem with a small company like Thalion is that we cannot simply
start a new project. Even though we are no longer the first on the
market with this technology, we feel it will still help to make Ambermoon
a very special RPG.
The feeling of really walking through a dark dungeon, with gruesome
monsters lurking around every corner, is conveyed better than ever before.

A special version of the dungeon system is present in the final game which
is specifically written for turbo-boards, causing a significant increase
in smoothness. This did of course mean twice as much work, which shows
what kind of good-hearted people we are.

The Character Status screen has remained much the same but is more pleasing
to the eye due to the new graphics. All the pretty borders and screen
layouts have been re-designed and re-drawn, as well as the portraits. The
entire game now uses 32 colours and has been designed with the Amiga firmly
in mind.

The looks of the Inventory screen have been much improved as well, but here
it is the user-friendliness which has been changed most dramatically.

No longer does one need cumbersome icons to move items around - just click
on an item and it is removed from the body or backpack. It is now attached
to the mouse-pointer. Then click somewhere else (even in another party
member's inventory !) and the program will intelligently put it there.
Added to this, you can put up to 24 items in each backpack, and scroll
through them using a scroll-bar.
These are just a few examples of the new, more intuitive user-interface
featured in Ambermoon.

Again you will find chests filled with useful items, valuable gems,
gold and food. But some chests are locked and you must try to open them
first. A thief in the party sure comes in handy here, but you must
still beware of traps...

Once you have managed to open the chest, you may take out it's contents
at you leisure - but now you can also put items, gold and food you are
carrying back! No longer do you have to throw gold away because it is too
heavy; just put it in a chest and return later to pick it up.

It is very easy to store gold and food in a chest; when you are in the chest
screen, simply enter the inventory screen and drop whatever you want. It
won't disappear but will be stored in the chest.

The worldmap in Ambermoon is four times bigger than the one in Amberstar, i.e.
800 times 800 squares. All graphics have been drawn to a proper scale now,
which means the party is no longer the same size as a tree or a mountain.

But there is more than just one world in Ambermoon... we don't want to give
away too much, but there will be other, different worlds...


	Ambermoon was made by the following people :

* Karsten Koeper, who does the design and the story and wrote the editors
which are used to create all the maps, sub-adventures etc. He also does
most of the editing. Karsten has played real RPG's for 10 years now and has
an equal amount of experience with computer RPG's. Basically he plays
almost everything which has something to do with role-playing.

* Jurie Horneman - which is me. I programmed Amberstar on the Atari ST and
am now working on Ambermoon on the Amiga. Both programs are written in 100%
assembler. Although games of this complexity are usually written in a high-
level language like C or Pascal, assembler gives me unsurpassed speed,
flexibility and control over the machine, which hopefully shows.

* Thorsten Mutschall, who did half of the graphics. Thorsten has years of
experience in the software world, having worked for most of the major
companies in Germany, and therefore is sometimes a bit cynical (subtle
reference to the software world in general). He tends to make amazing
graphics which stun everyone in the office, but being a perfectionist he
is seldom happy with his own work (weirdo!). He is also a fan of fantasy
books and real role-playing.

* Monika Krawinkel, who did the other half of the graphics. When she isn't
drawing graphics, Monika studies interior design, which is why she made all
the interior 2D graphics (and a lot more of course). She has a fresh view on
fantasy which gives her graphics a unique style, even though she has years
of experience as a graphic artist.

* Erik 'red-bearded giant' Simon. Erik is our development manager and
therefore produces Ambermoon. His fierce, 2-meter-tall appearance makes even
the boldest programmer tremble with fear and his bone-crunching neck-hold
ensures that everyone makes their deadlines. Well, almost.
Although he is usually occupied with designing and editing Lionheart, he found
time to draw all the 2D surface graphics for the giant world maps.

* Michael Bittner. Michael performed the impossible and wrote the real-time
texture-mapping dungeon, driving the poor Amiga blitter to it's limits (unless
you have a turbo-board of course). He is also a source of programming
knowledge, having lots of experience with the Amiga and the Atari ST.

* Matthias Steinwachs. Matthias is the 31-year old musician from Berlin who
made all the tunes for Ambermoon (and Lionheart as well, by the way). For
someone who produces such amazing music his letters are incredibly funny.

Production started around April 1991 and will hopefully end before April 1992.
By then, Ambermoon will have taken over 5 full person-years. Ambermoon will be
released on the Amiga first, followed closely by the Atari ST version
(probably 1 month later). A PC version will be made but no details are known
at this moment.

We hope you have found this text interesting and useful. As soon as new
screens are completed we will send them to you (i.e. a free update service).
If you have any questions, you can contact us in the  following ways :

      Fax : -49 5241 24939

Telephone : -49 5241 26686, ask for Jurie Horneman

     Post : Thalion Software GmbH
            c/o Jurie Horneman
            Koenigstrasse 16
            4830 Guetersloh
            Germany

Now, what you're probably thinking is :

 "Damn, this is really good stuff, if I just had a bit more to write about,
  I could easily fill that 3rd/4th/5th page."
Well, being the considerate chaps that we are, here is some more stuff to
fill those white spaces :

- Ambermoon will be playable from floppy- and from hard-disk. Although we
  advise playing from hard-disk, we will ensure that playing from floppy is
  still enjoyable.

- Ambermoon features an intelligent memory manager, which sucks up all the
  memory the OS has to offer (MUCH more than in Amberstar !), and manages
  this by itself, and quite intelligently by the way. This means that if you
  have enough memory, loaded files will remain in memory for as long as
  possible, so you won't have to load a lot. Ambermoon also features REAL
  garbage collection (a sexy memory management word), and if you have ever
  played Amberstar with 1Mb, you'll know what I'm talking about.

- There are several graphics sets for each map type. For instance, there are
  three different 2D world surface map graphic sets, some 2D interior map
  graphic sets, and also several sets for 3D dungeons and cities, so there's
  no chance of getting bored...
